1-Q. What is PostgreSQL?

A. PostgreSQL is a relational database management system work with SQL (structural query language). 
It is one of the most popular and secure database. It is also an open-source RDBMS. 
It is more popular because of is reliability and advanced features.


2-Q. What is the purpose of a database schema in PostgreSQL?

A. In PostgreSQL, database schema is use to create logical structure so that we can organize database tables. 
It help us to provide better management and security.


3-Q. Explain the primary key and foreign key concepts in PostgreSQL.

A. Primary key is a unique key that can uniquely identify each row within that table. It must be unique and not nullable.
Otherwise Foreign key is key which can make a relation in two table. One table primary key is other table foreign key. 
We use primary key for unique identity and foreign key for relationship.


4-Q. What is the difference between the VARCHAR and CHAR data types?

A. VARCHAR and CHAR are two data type and both store data as string but in VARCHAR it store a variable length string up to a maximum 
length like 0 to 10, if a string of 7 characters will only take 7 characters space. Otherwise CHAR store variable with fixed length 
like if we set length 10 and our string is 7 characters, it will take 10 characters space.


5-Q. Explain the purpose of the WHERE clause in a SELECT statement.

A. WHERE makes a condition in select statement, It is used to filter records from a table based on specific conditions.
It only return that rows which rows meet the specified conditions.


6-Q. What are the LIMIT and OFFSET clauses used for?

A. LIMIT and OFFSET clauses are used to control the number of rows returned by query. 
LIMIT specified the row limit and OFFSET specified row that will be skip.


7-Q. How can you perform data modification using UPDATE statements?

A. UPDATE statement is used to modify existing data in a table. It allows us to change values that match a specified condition.
We use SET clause to specify new values and WHERE clause if need any filter which rows to update.


8-Q. What is the significance of the JOIN operation, and how does it work in PostgreSQL?

A. JOIN operation  is used to combine two or more tables row based on related column between theme.
Join operation allows us to retrieve the related data by combining rows based on relative field like primary key and foreign key.


9-Q. Explain the GROUP BY clause and its role in aggregation operations.

A. GROUP BY clause is use to make rows grouped together with identical values in specified column and then apply 
aggregation function in each group rather than to individual rows. It allows queries to perform operations with summarize data in multiple rows.


10-Q. What is the purpose of an index in PostgreSQL, and how does it optimize query performance?

A. Index is use in PostgreSQL to make queries quicker. it improves data retrieval operation spreed. It is like an index in a book.
It store index values and PostgreSQL builds a data structure which allows it to quickly locate positions of rows.

